README.md, before:

# This layer provides support for LORX One Wifx gateway

## Supported SoCs / MACHINE names
-   LORIX One product / sama5d4-lorix-one

## Sources

-   meta-wifx URI: git://github.com/Wifx/meta-wifx.git \
    URI: https://github.com/Wifx/meta-wifx.git \
    Branch: krogoth

## Dependencies

This Layer depends on :

-   meta-openembedded URI: git://git.openembedded.org/meta-openembedded \
    URI: http://cgit.openembedded.org/meta-openembedded/ \
    Branch: krogoth

-   meta-golang URI: git://github.com/Wifx/meta-golang.git \
    URI: https://github.com/Wifx/meta-golang.git \
    Branch: master

-   meta-maker URI: git://git.yoctoproject.org/meta-maker \
    URI: https://git.yoctoproject.org/git/meta-maker \
    Branch: master

## Build procedure

1.  Install the required packages to use Yocto as described on the [Yocto required packages page](https://www.yoctoproject.org/docs/1.8/ref-manual/ref-manual.html#required-packages-for-the-host-development-system)

    -   Ubuntu
        ```
        $ sudo apt-get install gawk wget git-core diffstat unzip texinfo \
        gcc-multilib build-essential chrpath socat
        ```

    -   Fedora (not tested)
        ```
        $ sudo yum install gawk make wget tar bzip2 gzip python unzip perl patch \
             diffutils diffstat git cpp gcc gcc-c++ glibc-devel texinfo chrpath \
             ccache perl-Data-Dumper perl-Text-ParseWords perl-Thread-Queue socat \
             findutils which
        ```

2.  Create a directory
    ```
    mkdir my_dir
    cd my_dir
    ```

3.  Clone yocto/poky git repository with the proper branch ready
    ```
    git clone git://git.yoctoproject.org/poky -b krogoth
    ```

4.  Clone meta-openembedded git repository with the proper branch ready
    ```
    git clone git://git.openembedded.org/meta-openembedded -b krogoth
    ```

5.  Clone meta-wifx layer with the proper branch ready
    ```
    git clone git://github.com/Wifx/meta-wifx.git -b krogoth
    ```

6.  Clone meta-golang layer with the proper branch into "golang" directory
    ```
    git clone git://github.com/Wifx/meta-golang.git golang/meta-golang -b master
    ```

7.  Clone meta-maker layer with the proper branch ready
    ```
    git clone git://git.yoctoproject.org/meta-maker
    cd meta-maker 
    git reset --hard c039fafa7a0276769d0928d16bdacd2012f2aff6 
    cd ..
    ```

8.  Enter the poky directory to configure the build system and start the build
process 
    ```
    cd poky
    ```

9.  Initialize build directory
    ```
    source oe-init-build-env build-wifx
    ```

    In case of using the SD Card version next to the NAND one, an advice is to use
two build directories, for example build-wifx and buils-wifx-sd to avoid
recompiling every machine specific packages when swithing from one version to
the other.

10. Add meta-atmel layer to bblayer configuration file
    ```
    vim conf/bblayers.conf
    ```
    With the following content:
    ```
    # POKY_BBLAYERS_CONF_VERSION is increased each time build/conf/bblayers.conf
    # changes incompatibly
    POKY_BBLAYERS_CONF_VERSION = "2"

    BBPATH = "${TOPDIR}"
    BBFILES ?= ""

    BSPDIR := "${@os.path.abspath(os.path.dirname(d.getVar('FILE', True)) + '/../../..')}"

    BBLAYERS ?= " \
      ${BSPDIR}/meta-wifx \
      ${BSPDIR}/poky/meta \
      ${BSPDIR}/poky/meta-poky \
      ${BSPDIR}/poky/meta-yocto-bsp \
      ${BSPDIR}/meta-openembedded/meta-oe \
      ${BSPDIR}/meta-openembedded/meta-networking \
      ${BSPDIR}/meta-openembedded/meta-webserver \
      ${BSPDIR}/meta-openembedded/meta-perl \
      ${BSPDIR}/meta-openembedded/meta-python \
      ${BSPDIR}/meta-openembedded/meta-ruby \
      ${BSPDIR}/meta-openembedded/meta-multimedia \
      ${BSPDIR}/golang/meta-golang \
      ${BSPDIR}/meta-maker \
      "

    BBLAYERS_NON_REMOVABLE ?= " \
      ${BSPDIR}/poky/meta \
      ${BSPDIR}/poky/meta-poky \
      "
    ```
> **Note:** meta-webserver is only used for the wifx-extended image which contains optional web servers and can be omitted if not needed.

11. Edit local.conf to specify the machine, location of source archived, package
type (rpm, deb or ipk).\
    Pick one MACHINE name from the "Supported SoCs / MACHINE
names" chapter above and edit the "local.conf" file. \
    Here is an example:
    ```
    vim conf/local.conf
    ```
    And the content:
    ```
    [...]
    # LORIX One NAND memory based
    MACHINE ??= "sama5d4-lorix-one"
    or
    # LORIX One SD-Card memory based
    MACHINE ??= "sama5d4-lorix-one-sd"
    [...]
    DL_DIR ?= "your_download_directory_path"
    [...]
    PACKAGE_CLASSES ?= "package_ipk"
    [...]
    EXTRA_IMAGE_FEATURES ?= ""
    [...]
    USER_CLASSES ?= "buildstats image-mklibs"
    ```

    To get better performance, use the "poky-wifx" distribution by also adding that
line:
    ```
    DISTRO = "poky-wifx"
    ```

    To get build history (use more space on disk), activate the option with this
line in end of file:
    ```
    INHERIT += "buildhistory"
    BUILDHISTORY_COMMIT = "1"
    ```

    To remove work files after the build system has finished and reduce the overall system size, activate the option with this line in end of file:
    ```
    INHERIT += "rm_work"
    ```

12. Build Wifx standard image
    ```
    $ bitbake wifx-base
    ```

    Typical bitbake output
    ```
    Build Configuration:
    BB_VERSION        = "1.30.0"
    BUILD_SYS         = "x86_64-linux"
    NATIVELSBSTRING   = "universal"
    TARGET_SYS        = "arm-poky-linux-gnueabi"
    MACHINE           = "sama5d4-lorix-one"
    DISTRO            = "poky-wifx"
    DISTRO_VERSION    = "2.1.2"
    TUNE_FEATURES     = "arm armv7a vfp thumb neon       callconvention-hard       cortexa5"
    TARGET_FPU        = "hard"
    meta-wifx         = "krogoth:f5e1a500096c1a4ffa8b77657ad553f102bfa986"
    meta              
    meta-poky         
    meta-yocto-bsp    = "krogoth:ae9b341ecfcc60e970f29cfe04306411ad26c0cf"
    meta-oe           
    meta-networking   
    meta-perl         
    meta-python       
    meta-ruby         
    meta-multimedia   = "krogoth:55c8a76da5dc099a7bc3838495c672140cedb78e"
    meta-golang       = "master:72e26c77e91311e79f38863424adca9536a2bde6"
    meta-maker        = "master:c039fafa7a0276769d0928d16bdacd2012f2aff6"
    ```

13. Or build the more complete image include for example OpenVPN and other
network features
    ```
    bitbake wifx-extended
    ```

14. Or build the debug image which allow you for example to use the root user
without password (don't use it in production)
    ```
    bitbake wifx-base-dbg
    ```

15. Or build the devel image which contains also the toolchain and app headers
    ```
    bitbake wifx-base-dev
    ```

16. Or build the SDK image which contains in addition the kernel headers and
debug utilities
    ```
    bitbake wifx-base-sdk
    ```

17. In all cases, the toolchain installer is located in
build-wifx/tmp/deploy/sdk

Maintainers: Yannick Lanz <yannick.lanz@wifx.com>

When creating patches insert the [meta-wifx] tag in the subject, for example use
something like: git format-patch -s --subject-prefix='meta-wifx][PATCH'

Commit message:

Added support for LORIX One 512MB NAND version
Updated motd welcome message with lorix one wiki website pages
Updated at91bootstrap to version 3.8.9
Updated u-boot to version 2017.03
Created device tree for 512MB NAND version
Created OPKG feed for 512MB NAND version

README.md, after:

# This layer provides support for LORX One Wifx gateway

## Supported SoCs / MACHINE names
-   LORIX One product / sama5d4-lorix-one (256 and 512MB NAND versions)

## Sources

-   meta-wifx URI: git://github.com/Wifx/meta-wifx.git \
    URI: https://github.com/Wifx/meta-wifx.git \
    Branch: krogoth

## Dependencies

This Layer depends on :

-   meta-openembedded URI: git://git.openembedded.org/meta-openembedded \
    URI: http://cgit.openembedded.org/meta-openembedded/ \
    Branch: krogoth

-   meta-golang URI: git://github.com/Wifx/meta-golang.git \
    URI: https://github.com/Wifx/meta-golang.git \
    Branch: master

-   meta-maker URI: git://git.yoctoproject.org/meta-maker \
    URI: https://git.yoctoproject.org/git/meta-maker \
    Branch: master

## Build procedure

1.  Install the required packages to use Yocto as described on the [Yocto required packages page](https://www.yoctoproject.org/docs/1.8/ref-manual/ref-manual.html#required-packages-for-the-host-development-system)

    -   Ubuntu
        ```
        $ sudo apt-get install gawk wget git-core diffstat unzip texinfo \
        gcc-multilib build-essential chrpath socat
        ```

    -   Fedora (not tested)
        ```
        $ sudo yum install gawk make wget tar bzip2 gzip python unzip perl patch \
             diffutils diffstat git cpp gcc gcc-c++ glibc-devel texinfo chrpath \
             ccache perl-Data-Dumper perl-Text-ParseWords perl-Thread-Queue socat \
             findutils which
        ```

2.  Create a directory
    ```
    mkdir my_dir
    cd my_dir
    ```

3.  Clone yocto/poky git repository with the proper branch ready
    ```
    git clone git://git.yoctoproject.org/poky -b krogoth
    ```

4.  Clone meta-openembedded git repository with the proper branch ready
    ```
    git clone git://git.openembedded.org/meta-openembedded -b krogoth
    ```

5.  Clone meta-wifx layer with the proper branch ready
    ```
    git clone git://github.com/Wifx/meta-wifx.git -b krogoth
    ```

6.  Clone meta-golang layer with the proper branch into "golang" directory
    ```
    git clone git://github.com/Wifx/meta-golang.git golang/meta-golang -b master
    ```

7.  Clone meta-maker layer with the proper branch ready
    ```
    git clone git://git.yoctoproject.org/meta-maker
    cd meta-maker 
    git reset --hard c039fafa7a0276769d0928d16bdacd2012f2aff6 
    cd ..
    ```

8.  Enter the poky directory to configure the build system and start the build
process 
    ```
    cd poky
    ```

9.  Initialize build directory
    ```
    source oe-init-build-env build-wifx
    ```

    In case of using the SD Card version next to the NAND one, an advice is to use
two build directories, for example build-wifx and buils-wifx-sd to avoid
recompiling every machine specific packages when swithing from one version to
the other.

10. Add meta-atmel layer to bblayer configuration file
    ```
    vim conf/bblayers.conf
    ```
    With the following content:
    ```
    # POKY_BBLAYERS_CONF_VERSION is increased each time build/conf/bblayers.conf
    # changes incompatibly
    POKY_BBLAYERS_CONF_VERSION = "2"

    BBPATH = "${TOPDIR}"
    BBFILES ?= ""

    BSPDIR := "${@os.path.abspath(os.path.dirname(d.getVar('FILE', True)) + '/../../..')}"

    BBLAYERS ?= " \
      ${BSPDIR}/meta-wifx \
      ${BSPDIR}/poky/meta \
      ${BSPDIR}/poky/meta-poky \
      ${BSPDIR}/poky/meta-yocto-bsp \
      ${BSPDIR}/meta-openembedded/meta-oe \
      ${BSPDIR}/meta-openembedded/meta-networking \
      ${BSPDIR}/meta-openembedded/meta-webserver \
      ${BSPDIR}/meta-openembedded/meta-perl \
      ${BSPDIR}/meta-openembedded/meta-python \
      ${BSPDIR}/meta-openembedded/meta-ruby \
      ${BSPDIR}/meta-openembedded/meta-multimedia \
      ${BSPDIR}/golang/meta-golang \
      ${BSPDIR}/meta-maker \
      "

    BBLAYERS_NON_REMOVABLE ?= " \
      ${BSPDIR}/poky/meta \
      ${BSPDIR}/poky/meta-poky \
      "
    ```
> **Note:** meta-webserver is only used for the wifx-extended image which contains optional web servers and can be omitted if not needed.

11. Edit local.conf to specify the machine, location of source archived, package
type (rpm, deb or ipk).\
    Pick one MACHINE name from the "Supported SoCs / MACHINE
names" chapter above and edit the "local.conf" file. \
    Here is an example:
    ```
    vim conf/local.conf
    ```
    And the content:
    ```
    [...]
    # LORIX One NAND memory based (256MB NAND version)
    MACHINE ??= "sama5d4-lorix-one"
    or
    # LORIX One NAND memory based (512MB NAND version)
    MACHINE ??= "sama5d4-lorix-one-512"
    or
    # LORIX One SD-Card memory based (256MB NAND version)
    MACHINE ??= "sama5d4-lorix-one-sd"
    or
    # LORIX One SD-Card memory based (512MB NAND version)
    MACHINE ??= "sama5d4-lorix-one-512-sd"
    [...]
    DL_DIR ?= "your_download_directory_path"
    [...]
    PACKAGE_CLASSES ?= "package_ipk"
    [...]
    EXTRA_IMAGE_FEATURES ?= ""
    [...]
    USER_CLASSES ?= "buildstats image-mklibs"
    ```

    > **Note:** You can find more information about versions on the 
    [dedicated page of the LORIX One's wiki](http://lorixone.io/wiki/Versions)

    To get better performance, use the "poky-wifx" distribution by also adding that
line:
    ```
    DISTRO = "poky-wifx"
    ```

    To get build history (use more space on disk), activate the option with this
line in end of file:
    ```
    INHERIT += "buildhistory"
    BUILDHISTORY_COMMIT = "1"
    ```

    To remove work files after the build system has finished and reduce the overall system size, activate the option with this line in end of file:
    ```
    INHERIT += "rm_work"
    ```

12. Build Wifx standard image
    ```
    $ bitbake wifx-base
    ```

    Typical bitbake output
    ```
    Build Configuration:
    BB_VERSION        = "1.30.0"
    BUILD_SYS         = "x86_64-linux"
    NATIVELSBSTRING   = "universal"
    TARGET_SYS        = "arm-poky-linux-gnueabi"
    MACHINE           = "sama5d4-lorix-one"
    DISTRO            = "poky-wifx"
    DISTRO_VERSION    = "2.1.2"
    TUNE_FEATURES     = "arm armv7a vfp thumb neon       callconvention-hard       cortexa5"
    TARGET_FPU        = "hard"
    meta-wifx         = "krogoth:f5e1a500096c1a4ffa8b77657ad553f102bfa986"
    meta              
    meta-poky         
    meta-yocto-bsp    = "krogoth:ae9b341ecfcc60e970f29cfe04306411ad26c0cf"
    meta-oe           
    meta-networking   
    meta-perl         
    meta-python       
    meta-ruby         
    meta-multimedia   = "krogoth:55c8a76da5dc099a7bc3838495c672140cedb78e"
    meta-golang       = "master:72e26c77e91311e79f38863424adca9536a2bde6"
    meta-maker        = "master:c039fafa7a0276769d0928d16bdacd2012f2aff6"
    ```

13. Or build the more complete image include for example OpenVPN and other
network features
    ```
    bitbake wifx-extended
    ```

14. Or build the debug image which allow you for example to use the root user
without password (don't use it in production)
    ```
    bitbake wifx-base-dbg
    ```

15. Or build the devel image which contains also the toolchain and app headers
    ```
    bitbake wifx-base-dev
    ```

16. Or build the SDK image which contains in addition the kernel headers and
debug utilities
    ```
    bitbake wifx-base-sdk
    ```

17. In all cases, the toolchain installer is located in
build-wifx/tmp/deploy/sdk

Maintainers: Yannick Lanz <yannick.lanz@wifx.com>

When creating patches insert the [meta-wifx] tag in the subject, for example use
something like: git format-patch -s --subject-prefix='meta-wifx][PATCH'
